When should we
formulate a problem as
an episodic or continuing task?
In this short video,
we'll discuss a few more
examples that will help us
understand episodic and
continuing problems.
By the end of this video,
you will be able to
understand when to formalize
a task as episodic or continuing.
First let's look at an example
of an episodic task.
Consider an agent learning
to play a simple video game.
The player represented in
blue gets points for collecting
white treasure blocks.
The game ends when the player
touches a green enemy block.
This game is naturally
represented as an episodic NDP.
The agent tries to
get a high score,
collecting as many points as
possible before the game ends.
The state is an array of
pixel values corresponding
to the current screen.
There are four actions,
up, down, left, and right.
The agent gets
a reward of plus one
whenever collects
a treasure block.
An episode ends when the agent
touches one of the green enemies.
Regardless of how
the episode ends,
the next episode we'll
begin with the agent in
the center of the screen
with no enemies present.
By the way, the agent you are
currently watching was
trained with key learning.
It's pretty good at
this game, isn't it?
In Course 2, you'll learn about
this algorithm and
implement it yourself.
Now let's look at an example
of a continuing task.
The agent is going to schedule
jobs on a set of servers.
Suppose we have
three servers used by
reinforcement researchers
to run experiments.
Researchers submit jobs with
different priorities
to a single queue.
The state is a number
of free servers,
and the prior to the job
at the top of the queue.
The actions are to
reject or accept
the job at the top of
the queue if a server is free.
Accepting the job, runs it and
yields a reward equal
to the jobs priority.
Rejecting a job yields
a negative reward
proportional to the priority,
and sends the job to
the back of the queue.
The agent should be
careful about scheduling
low priority jobs
since he could prevent
high priority jobs from
being scheduled later.
The servers become available
as they finish their jobs.
The researchers continually
add jobs to the queue,
and the agent accepts
or rejects them.
Since this process never stops,
it's well-described
as a continuing task.
That's it for this video.
You've now seen
some concrete examples of
episodic and continuing tasks.
Episodic tasks break naturally
into independent episodes.
Continuing tasks are assumed
to continue indefinitely.
You should now be
able to determine
which formulation is most
appropriate for a given problem.